#summary Project Management Guidelines (Issue 1)
#labels Featured

== Charter ==

The project is managed according to Apache Software Foundation voting rules, where the votes of project members are binding. 

=== Project Membership ===

Project membership is be open to anyone with their own BSD-licensed code to submit. The original widget author retains a copyright to the code and any subsequent changes. Any other member can apply patches to any widget pursuant to a filed issue and subject to the original author's veto. 

Project members can be removed by 3/4 majority vote of existing members. If a project member is removed, all original code submissions from that member may also be removed at the member's request. Members may voluntarily change their status to "emeritus" (or inactive), in which case membership is reactivated upon request.

=== Member Material ===

All code submissions and revisions must follow the Yazaar [Conventions conventions] and must include at least one coding example, in the YUI style. 

Code and documentation submissions from prospective members can be accepted by a minimum-quorum majority vote of the existing members. When a submission is accepted, the submission's author becomes a project member. Additional submissions by existing members are accepted by lazy majority vote. (No majority vote needed unless another project member votes a -1 in response to the submission.) 

Negative votes as to submissions must be on technical grounds only, such as the code is not based on the YUI library, does not meet the style guidelines, is not subject to the BSD license, or does not perform as expected. 

=== Non-Member Material ===

Existing members may post BSD-licensed code that is made available to the general public by non-members so long as the provisions of the [http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php BSD license] are strictly observed. Lazy majority voting rules apply. 

At a copyright-holder's request, posted code may be removed from the public site and deleted from the repository. The submission cannot be removed from the historical Subversion record, so members must exercise care when posting submissions from a third-party. 

Since non-member material is not under the direct control of the project, such material does not need to follow project conventions or include an example. 

=== Distributions ==

All code and documentation is available through the project repository. Convenience distributions of the Yazaar library are made available on a bi-monthly basis.
