#summary Stepping through the YUI documentation (Issue 1)
#labels Featured

The trails step through the [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/ YUI documentation] in a  progressive, tutorial-style order. There are seven trails in this series: Backbone, Infrastructure, Workhorse, FX, Workflow, IO, and CSS.

  _As you review the YUI "Getting Started" documentation, it's an excellent idea to cut-and-paste the example code into your own [http://www.aptana.com/ IDE or editor] and try to get the examples to work in your own environment. If you don't try the example code on your first reading, do try running the example code the first time you use any of the modules!_

= First Trail: Backbone = 

The YUI library builds on three "backbone" packages that hold the library together.

 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/yahoo/ yahoo]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/dom/ dom]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/event/ event]

= Second Trail: Infrastructure = 

To help us track and trace what's happening behind the scenes, the library provides five "infrastructure" packages.

 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/logger/ logger]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/yuitest/ yuitest]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/yuiloader/ YUILoader Utility]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/imageloader/ imageloader]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/history/ history]

= Third Trail: Workhorse = 

To help us acquire data from an external source, the library provides two "workhorse" packages.

 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/connection/ connection]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/datasource/ datasource]

= Fourth Trail: FX =

To help us manipulate visual objects, the library provides three "Special Effects"  packages.

 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/element/ element]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/dragdrop/ dragdrop]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/animation/ animation]

= Fifth Trail: Workflow =

To help us guide users through complex tasks, the library provides five "workflow" packages.

 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/container/ container]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/menu/ menu]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/button/ button]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/tabview/ tabview]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/treeview/ treeview]

= Sixth Trail: IO = 

To help us display output and acquire input, the library provides six "IO" packages. 

 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/autocomplete/ autocomplete]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/slider/ slider]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/colorpicker/ colorpicker]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/calendar/ calendar]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/editor/ editor]
 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/datatable/ datatable]

= Seventh Trail: CSS = 

To help us customize the look and feel of our widgets, the library provides four CSS packages.

 * [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/reset/ reset], [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/examples/base/ base], [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/fonts/ fonts], and [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/grids/ grids]

Including "laboratory" time to try some of the examples, each trail can take a full day. (And probably should!) 

Skimming the source code for each module is strongly recommended. YUI is a superb, professional product, and there is much to be learned by studying its example. 

 * [Resources]


